README.md, before:



# Readme

# Description

**pendulum** is a language dedicated to the programming of reactive systems on the
 Web. It has a powerful expressivity to describe synchronous concurrent systems
 communicating with broadcasted signals. Its constructions and implementation
 are mostly based on Esterel. The language is embedded in OCaml as a syntax
 extension. It allows the programmer to describe **reactive machines** as OCaml
 values, and run them on signals arguments. The execution of concurrency in pendulum is
 completely sequential and the scheduling is static.
 ([similar work and inspiration](https://github.com/remyzorg/pendulum/wiki/Similar-works-and-inspiration))

The core language is completely compatible with vanilla OCaml compiler.

**We would be grateful for any feedback on this implementation,
but beware that this prototype is still in active developpement**



# Documentation

see a slight [documentation](https://www.github.com/remyzorg/pendulum/wiki/Documentation) and [examples](examples/)

## Example

A UI for playing video with customs controls: play/pause, seek, display time

```ocaml
let%sync reactive_player =
  input play_pause; (* the button *)
  input progress_bar; (* the progress element *)
  input media; (* the video element *)
  input time_a; (* the a elt displaying time*)

  let no_update = () in
  let state = Js.to_bool media##.paused in

  (* when the video starts or restarts playing,
     switch the display of the button*)
  loop (
    present media##onplay
      !(play_pause##.textContent := Js.some @@ Js.string "Pause"); pause)

  (* switch state when the button is clicked *)
  || loop (present play_pause##onclick (emit state (not !!state)); pause)

  (* when the state changes, update the media and the button *)
  || loop (present state !(update_state (!!state) media play_pause); pause)

  (* when mouse is down on the progress bar, start emit `no_update` every instants
     until mouse is up to block the following task. When mouse ups,
     update the media in consequence *)
  || loop (
    await progress_bar##onmousedown;
    trap t' (loop (
        emit no_update ();
        present progress_bar##onmouseup
          (!(update_media media progress_bar); exit t');
        pause)
      ); pause)

  (* Each progression steps of the video, update the progress bar
     with the right value. Except no_update is present. *)
  || loop (
    present media##onprogress (
      present no_update nothing !(update_slider progress_bar media)
      ||
      !(update_time_a media (!!time_a))
    ); pause)
```
see [this example](examples/player) for the full code

# Install

### with opam (easier)

opam `1.2` with `switch 4.02.2` (minimum) is required

* `opam pin add pendulum git://github.com/remyzorg/pendulum.git`

* an example to use pendulum as syntax extension with ocamlbuild

`ocamlbuild -package pendulum -cflags "-ppx ppx_pendulum" <file-without-ext>.byte`

### without opam

1. `git clone git://github.com/remyzorg/pendulum.git`
2. `cd pendulum`
3. `./configure`
4. `make`
5. `make install `


### Licensing and context

This project is under MIT public license. It started in the context of UCF project.

Commit message:

update readme with todomvc perf comp

README.md, after:



# Readme

# Description

**pendulum** is a language dedicated to the programming of reactive systems on the
 Web. It has a powerful expressivity to describe synchronous concurrent systems
 communicating with broadcasted signals. Its constructions and implementation
 are mostly based on Esterel. The language is embedded in OCaml as a syntax
 extension. It allows the programmer to describe **reactive machines** as OCaml
 values, and run them on signals arguments. The execution of concurrency in pendulum is
 completely sequential and the scheduling is static.
 ([similar work and inspiration](https://github.com/remyzorg/pendulum/wiki/Similar-works-and-inspiration))

The core language is completely compatible with vanilla OCaml compiler.

**We would be grateful for any feedback on this implementation,
but beware that this prototype is still in active developpement**

# Documentation

see a slight [documentation](https://www.github.com/remyzorg/pendulum/wiki/Documentation) and [examples](examples/)



## Example

### todomvc benchmark

Check our [example](examples/todomvc) and the 
[benchmark results](https://github.com/remyzorg/todomvc-perf-comparison)

A UI for playing video with customs controls: play/pause, seek, display time

```ocaml
let%sync reactive_player =
  input play_pause; (* the button *)
  input progress_bar; (* the progress element *)
  input media; (* the video element *)
  input time_a; (* the a elt displaying time*)

  let no_update = () in
  let state = Js.to_bool media##.paused in

  (* when the video starts or restarts playing,
     switch the display of the button*)
  loop (
    present media##onplay
      !(play_pause##.textContent := Js.some @@ Js.string "Pause"); pause)

  (* switch state when the button is clicked *)
  || loop (present play_pause##onclick (emit state (not !!state)); pause)

  (* when the state changes, update the media and the button *)
  || loop (present state !(update_state (!!state) media play_pause); pause)

  (* when mouse is down on the progress bar, start emit `no_update` every instants
     until mouse is up to block the following task. When mouse ups,
     update the media in consequence *)
  || loop (
    await progress_bar##onmousedown;
    trap t' (loop (
        emit no_update ();
        present progress_bar##onmouseup
          (!(update_media media progress_bar); exit t');
        pause)
      ); pause)

  (* Each progression steps of the video, update the progress bar
     with the right value. Except no_update is present. *)
  || loop (
    present media##onprogress (
      present no_update nothing !(update_slider progress_bar media)
      ||
      !(update_time_a media (!!time_a))
    ); pause)
```
see [this example](examples/player) for the full code

# Install

### with opam (easier)

opam `1.2` with `switch 4.02.2` (minimum) is required

* `opam pin add pendulum git://github.com/remyzorg/pendulum.git`

* an example to use pendulum as syntax extension with ocamlbuild

`ocamlbuild -package pendulum -cflags "-ppx ppx_pendulum" <file-without-ext>.byte`

### without opam

1. `git clone git://github.com/remyzorg/pendulum.git`
2. `cd pendulum`
3. `./configure`
4. `make`
5. `make install `


### Licensing and context

This project is under MIT public license. It started in the context of UCF project.
